[Music]
what lets you see your real self
pictures or mirrors sometimes we look
better in the mirror other times we like
ourselves more in pictures but why do
these images often look so different and
which one is lying the mirror or the
camera let's try and figure it out
together but before we start don't
forget to subscribe to our channel and
turn on notifications so you'll always
be the first to see all our new videos
you might not realize it but there is a
psychological aspect that plays an
important role in how you perceive your
appearance whether it's in a photo or
the mirror simply speaking we tend to
look in the mirror the most when we're
at home in an environment where we feel
our freest and most relaxed you don't
have any makeup on your hair isn't all
done up you are visually your natural
and true self as for photographs we
usually end up in the frame while we're
on foreign turf meaning that we can look
more tense and unprepared we all try to
look good and want to get a perfect
picture to share on social media so we
put pressure on ourselves that's why
when we glance in the mirror before
heading off to a party we see an
irresistible good-looking individual and
then the next day looking at ourselves
in those party shots we suddenly notice
quite the opposite
thumbs up if you can totally relate
maybe the solution is to try to be more
natural on camera don't put up a
completely different front after all
it's capturing the moment that matters
another important aspect is the angle
you see nobody's face is purely
symmetrical of course some lucky faces
are more symmetrical while others are
less but still completely facial
symmetry is exceptionally rare and there
lies the cause of all the confusion
every morning as we look in the mirror
we stand in the same spot observing
ourselves from a familiar perspective as
a result we get used to seeing our face
from one particular angle but when it
comes to photographs you don't always
get a warning about how when and from
which direction the picture will be
taken so when you see the final shot
your face often looks
different and maybe less attractive if
this bothers you just try to find your
perfect angles and work them every time
your picture is being taken or go a
completely different direction and
figure out all the angles that don't
flatter you and avoid them when you're
posing for photographs the more you know
about your facial structure and it's
visually strong and weak points the
better learn what works for you and
taking a photo won't be such a problem
anymore
white balance also influences our
appearance in pictures every type of
lighting has its own temperature but
when we look in the mirror we don't
register this temperature diversity at
all and this happens because of our
brain it just automatically evens out
all the subtle differences and shows us
the complexion we're used to seeing a
photograph however captures the lighting
as it really is with all the offsets and
variations in temperature all
professional photographers know that
lighting can make or break a shot when
we look in the mirror even if the
lighting is crappy painting our faces
different colors or casting shadows all
over it here and there
we still see our usual selves the camera
unlike the brain doesn't try and help us
out here it makes us see our features in
objective lighting so whenever you look
at yourself in a photograph and you
don't like what you see maybe the
lighting is to blame focusing on certain
aspects of our appearance also plays a
role in the mirror versus photo debate
pretty much every time we look in the
mirror we usually focus on some
particular part of our reflection and
don't see the overall picture we're
looking at our lips nose eyebrows or
shoulders and don't analyze how all
these bits work together to form our
appearance but when we look at a
photograph we perceive everything at
once and notice things that previously
seemed insignificant it can be bad
posture awkwardly positioned hands or
anything else you usually don't notice
in your reflection tears we're learning
how to pose can help out a lot there are
tons of posing tutorials online or you
can just figure out which ones work for
you by taking a bunch of pictures and
picking out the best
this will help you feel way more
confident in front of a camera and
finally the biggest thing that confuses
us is mirroring in a reflection we
always see an inverted version of
ourselves and that ultimately shapes our
perception of what we look like but it
kind of fools us pictures on the other
hand portray us the way we're seen by
others that's why this is an unusual
perspective for us that can come as
quite a surprise but photographs have
their own downsides that we covered
earlier so what actually gives us a true
image of ourselves pictures or mirrors
well sorry to all of you who loved
checking yourself out in the mirror but
only photographs can give us a more
accurate image of ourselves but even if
you're not the most photogenic person in
the frame
don't worry maybe you are snapped at a
bad moment or you were stressed out or
sleep-deprived heck maybe you didn't
even have time to suck in your gut you
probably know a couple of
average-looking people that always look
incredible in photographs and that's
simply because they know exactly what
works for them everything comes with
practice so don't be afraid to take more
pictures just by looking at them you can
see what angle or pose is the best and
which of your features you should
highlight take some time to get to know
yourself and your appearance and you'll
always look your best in every shot what
about you do you like yourself better in
the mirror or in photos tell us in the
comment section below don't forget to
share this video with your friends and
family it'll definitely help them out
too and while you're at it give it a
like remember to always stay on the
bright side of life see you soon